---
title: About me
description: A bio of my time as a PhD student
images: []
---

My name is John Ladan. I'm a recent PhD graduate in Physics from the University
of Toronto, with a previous Masters of Applied Mathematics from the University
of Waterloo. Throughout my academic career, I've maintained a love of computer
science and mathematics. I'm excited to re-enter the workforce in a career in
data science, machine learning, or software development.

As a PhD student, I had to manage multiple priorities, including research,
teaching, course development, and my own life. Software development was
necessary to actually accomplish all of these things.

In my spare time, I enjoy reading, going on motorcycle camping trips, and a bit
of woodworking. I'm a bit of a unix neckbeard at heart, so I spend a lot of time
in the terminal, using vim, and bash scripts. I also enjoy learning and using
new programming languages -- most recently Rust, Go, and Elixir.

My PhD research was about how icicles grow with impurities; a specific case of
wet-ice formation. I discovered that small amounts of impurities like salt
increase the retention of water on the surface, and become trapped inside
pockets of brine. This changes the shape and growth rate of ice. While a niche
subject, better models of ice growth have broader applications to geophysics and
engineering, and ice is a surprisingly challenging field with many open
problems. 

To perform my experiment, I built the "Icicle Machine", producing roughly 20 TB
of images from which I extracted the topography and surface liquid distribution.
To analyze such a large data set, I automated the process using Python and bash
scripts with a touch of C++ and javascript. Of course, with over 10k LOC
written, version control with git was a necessity.

I'm also quite proud of my work with the advanced undergraduate physics lab at U
of T. As part of that, I set up git repositories on the department's GitLab
server for all the lab software provided to students to run and analyze
experiments. 

I enjoyed working with the students, teaching them how to troubleshoot
equipment, debug and understand their scripts, and think analytically about
their results. After proving myself as a TA for the course, I was hired as an
instructor in the 2022-2023 academic year.

In addition to my instruction and TA work, I was hired as a tutor for a fellow
PhD student, teaching him how to use Python for numerical simulation of ODEs,
Git/Github, and performing code-reviews. His work was about workplace exposure
to SVOCs, and the model I helped implement led to several published papers.
