content/portfolio/abicam/index.md, before:

+++
title = "ABICAM scientific programming tutor"
description = "ABICAM is a simulation of workplace chemical exposure, based on the physics of chemical transport"
date = "2023-09-11T13:24:26-04:00"
jobDate = 201
work = ["Tutor", "Mentor"]
techs = ["Python", "SciPy", "Pandas", "NumPy"]
designs = []
thumbnail = ""
projectUrl = ""
# testimonial =""
#   name = ""
#   role = ""
#   image = ""
#   text = ""
+++

<!-- TODO collect a list of Jacob's papers -->
<!-- TODO create a nice thumbnail image -->

I was hired as a Python and computational math tutor by a fellow Ph.D. student
to help him implement a simulation of an "Activity-Based Indoor Contaminant
Assessment Model" (ABICAM). The model tracked the exposure of volatile organic
compounds (VOCs) for humans inside a workplace or home environment throughout a
day, while the occupants performed various activities. 

This was a novel approach, because nearly all previous models for chemical
exposure were based upon the steady-state solution of an inactive person.

- Multiple papers published on the result
- Novel insights
    - time to reach the steady-state exposure
    - effects of aerosols "scrubbing" VOCs from the air
    - the significance of methods to reduce exposure, such as cleaning,
      changing protective equipment, and ventilation.

Commit message:

create thumbnails, and clean up apl and abicam projects

content/portfolio/abicam/index.md, after:

+++
title = "ABICAM scientific programming tutor"
description = "ABICAM is a simulation of workplace chemical exposure, based on the physics of chemical transport"
date = "2021-04-11"
jobDate = "2019-2021"
work = ["Tutor", "Mentor"]
techs = ["Python", "SciPy", "Pandas", "NumPy"]
designs = []
thumbnail = "abicam/voc-exposure-small.jpeg"
projectUrl = ""
# testimonial =""
#   name = ""
#   role = ""
#   image = ""
#   text = ""
+++

I was hired as a Python and computational math tutor by a fellow Ph.D. student
to help him implement a simulation of an "Activity-Based Indoor Contaminant
Assessment Model" (ABICAM). The model tracked the exposure of semivolatile organic
compounds (SVOCs) for humans inside a workplace or home environment throughout a
day, while the occupants performed various activities. 

This was a novel approach, because nearly all previous models for chemical
exposure were based upon the steady-state solution of an inactive person. Using
this simulation, Jacob gained insights into:

- time to reach the steady-state exposure;
- effects of aerosols "scrubbing" SVOCs from the air;
- the significance of methods to reduce exposure, such as cleaning,
  changing protective equipment, and ventilation; and
- propogation of SVOCs from and through clothing.

## Papers published using this work

- Jacob Kvasnicka et al. [Transient Multimedia Model for Investigating the Influence of Indoor Human
  Activities on Exposure to SVOCs](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.0c03268)
- Jacob Kvasnicka et al. [Modeling Clothing as a Vector for Transporting
  Airborne Particles and Pathogens across Indoor
  Microenvironments](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.1c08342)
- Jacob Kvasnicka et al. [Textile Washing Conveys SVOCs from Indoors to
  Outdoors: Application and Evaluation of a Residential Multimedia Model](https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.est.1c02674)
